Here’s a step-by-step workflow of how the Student Management System project operates, based on your Main.java and the typical structure of such a Java project:

1. Startup-
The program starts by creating an instance of StudentDAO (Data Access Object) and a Scanner for user input.

2. Main Menu Loop-
The user is presented with a menu:
Add Student
View All Students
Update Student
Delete Student
Exit
The menu repeats until the user chooses to exit.

3. Menu Options & Their Workflows-
a. Add Student-
User is prompted to enter:
Name
Age
Course
A new Student object is created with these details.
dao.addStudent(student) is called to save the student (likely in a database).

b. View All Students-
dao.getAllStudents() is called to retrieve a list of all students.
The program prints each student’s:
ID
Name
Age
Course

c. Update Student-
User is prompted to enter:
The ID of the student to update
New name
New age
New course
A new Student object is created with the updated details (including the ID).
dao.updateStudent(student) is called to update the student’s information in the database.

d. Delete Student-
User is prompted to enter the ID of the student to delete.
dao.deleteStudent(id) is called to remove the student from the database.

e. Exit-
The program prints an exit message and terminates.

4. Supporting Classes (Typical Roles)-
Student.java: Represents a student entity (fields: id, name, age, course; with getters/setters).
StudentDAO.java: Handles all database operations (add, get, update, delete students).
DBConnection.java: Manages the connection to the database (likely using JDBC).
db/schema.sql: Contains the SQL schema for the students table.

5. Database Workflow-
When adding, updating, or deleting students, the DAO uses SQL queries (via JDBC) to interact with the database.
When viewing students, the DAO fetches all records from the students table and returns them as a list of Student objects.

6. How to Run-
Compile all Java files in src/.
Ensure the database is set up using db/schema.sql.
Run Main.java to start the application.